END USER LICENCE AGREEMENT FOR SECURE MONITOR EXAMPLE CODE (ARMv8-A) 

THIS END USER LICENCE AGREEMENT ("LICENCE") IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT 
BETWEEN YOU (EITHER A SINGLE INDIVIDUAL, OR SINGLE LEGAL ENTITY) 
("YOU") AND ARM LIMITED ("ARM") FOR THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE 
ACCOMPANYING THIS LICENCE. ARM IS ONLY WILLING TO LICENSE THE SOFTWARE 
TO YOU ON CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE TERMS IN THIS LICENCE. BY 
CLICKING "I AGREE" OR BY INSTALLING OR OTHERWISE USING OR COPYING 
THE SOFTWARE YOU INDICATE THAT YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY ALL OF THE TERMS 
OF THIS LICENCE. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENCE, ARM 
IS UNWILLING TO LICENSE THE SOFTWARE TO YOU AND YOU MAY NOT INSTALL, USE 
OR COPY THE SOFTWARE, AND YOU SHOULD PROMPTLY RETURN THE SOFTWARE TO 
YOUR SUPPLIER. 

"ARMv8-A Architecture" means ARM's proprietary ARMv8-A application 
architecture profile associated with a 64-bit execution model, 
instruction set, exception model, memory model and debug support. 

"ARM Compliant Product" means an integrated circuit which 
incorporates technology licensed from ARM and may or may not include a 
CPU provided that where such integrated circuit incorporates a CPU then 
such CPU is either: (i) a CPU manufactured under licence from ARM; or 
(ii) a CPU other than a CPU manufactured under licence from ARM, 
provided that such CPU is not: (a) substantially compliant with the ARM 
instruction sets licensed by ARM from time to time; or (b) marketed as 
being compliant with the ARM instruction sets licensed by ARM from time 
to time. 

"SMC Software Implementation" means Your implementation of the 
Software for use in a Trusted Execution Environment using an ARM 
Compliant Product compatible with the ARMv8-A Architecture. 

"Software" means the source code of the secure monitor example code 
and all accompanying software, example application code and data, and 
any updates, patches and modifications ARM may make available to You 
under the terms of this Licence. 

"Trusted Execution Environment" means a application processor based 
security solution that provides a separate execution environment for use 
by one or more trusted applications. 


1. LICENCE GRANTS. 

ARM hereby grants to You, subject to the terms and conditions of this 
Licence, a revocable, non-exclusive, non-transferable, perpetual, 
worldwide licence, to use, copy and modify the Software solely for: 

(i) internal use of the source code of the Software solely for 
development by You of the SMC Software Implementation for execution on 
ARM Compliant Products compatible with the ARMv8-A Architecture; and 

(ii) distribution of the SMC Software Implementation created under 
Clause 1(i) in binary form only to the public for execution on ARM 
Compliant Products compatible with the ARMv8-A Architecture. 


2. RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF THE SOFTWARE. 

PERMITTED USERS: The Software may be used only by Your employees, 
employees of Your wholly-owned subsidiaries, Your contractors and 
contractors of Your wholly owned subsidiaries, provided that such 
contractors access the Software using Your IT systems. You hereby agree 
to be liable to ARM for the acts and omissions of Your wholly owned 
subsidiaries, Your contractors and contractors of Your wholly-owned 
subsidiaries. Only contractors who access the Software using Your IT 
systems are permitted to use the Software. Except as expressly permitted 
by this Clause, You shall not allow third parties to use the Software 
unless ARM specifically agrees otherwise with You on a case-by-case 
basis. 

REMOTE USE: The Software shall only be used onsite at Your premises, 
except when used offsite by an employee (but not a contractor) of Yours, 
on a portable computer, in accordance with the paragraph above, as part 
of his or her normal work activities, and only for Your benefit. 

RESULTS: You shall treat all results of Your use of the Software, 
including but not limited to benchmarking data, ("Results"), as 
confidential information in accordance with Clause 4 below and you shall 
not disclose such Results to any third party without ARM's express 
written consent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ARM agrees not to 
withhold consent for reasonable requests to make such disclosures, 
provided that such disclosures are under appropriate confidentiality 
obligations. 

COPYING: You shall not use or copy the Software except as expressly 
authorised in this Licence. You may make one additional copy of the 
delivered Software media or image for backup or archival purposes. 

COPYRIGHT AND RESERVATION OF RIGHTS: The Software is owned by ARM or its 
licensors and is protected by copyright and other intellectual property 
laws and international treaties. The Software is licensed not sold. You 
acquire no rights to the Software other than as expressly provided by 
this Licence. You shall not remove from the Software any copyright 
notice or other notice and shall ensure that any such notice is 
reproduced in any copies of the whole or any part of the Software made 
by You or other permitted users. 


3. SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE. 

ARM is not under an obligation to provide support and maintenance, but 
it may do so at its own discretion. 


4. CONFIDENTIALITY. 

You acknowledge that the source code of the Software, any information 
exchanged in the provision of support and related information contain 
trade secrets and confidential material, and You agree to maintain them 
in confidence and apply security measures no less stringent than the 
measures which You apply to protect Your own like information, but not 
less than a reasonable degree of care, to prevent their unauthorised 
disclosure and use. You agree that You shall not use any such 
information other than for the purpose permitted under the licences 
granted in this Licence. Subject to any restrictions imposed by 
applicable law, the period of confidentiality shall be twenty (20) years 
from the date of disclosure. 

The provisions of this Clause 4 shall not apply to information which: 
(i) is known to and has been reduced to tangible form by the receiving 
party prior to its receipt provided that such information is not already 
subject to any obligations of confidentiality; or (ii) is in the public 
domain at the time of receipt or later becomes part of the public domain 
without breach of the confidentiality obligations in this Licence; or 
(iii) is received from a third party without any breach of any 
obligation of confidentiality in respect of such information provided 
that such information is not subject to any continuing obligations of 
confidentiality. 


5. NO WARRANTIES. 

YOU AGREE THAT THE SOFTWARE IS LICENSED "AS IS", AND THAT ARM 
EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS OR OTHER 
TERMS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, SATISFACTORY QUALITY, AND 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

YOU EXPRESSLY ASSUME ALL LIABILITIES AND RISKS, FOR USE OR OPERATION OF 
SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, SOFTWARE 
APPLICATIONS DESIGNED OR INTENDED FOR MISSION CRITICAL APPLICATIONS, 
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PACEMAKERS, WEAPONRY, AIRCRAFT 
NAVIGATION, FACTORY CONTROL SYSTEMS, ETC. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE 
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE ENTIRE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR 
OR CORRECTION. 


6. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. 

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL ARM 
BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES 
(INCLUDING LOSS OF PROFITS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE 
THE SOFTWARE WHETHER BASED ON A CLAIM UNDER CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHER 
LEGAL THEORY, EVEN IF ARM WAS ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGES. ARM does not seek to limit or exclude liability for death or 
personal injury arising from ARM's negligence or ARM's fraud and 
because some jurisdictions do not permit the exclusion or limitation of 
liability for consequential or incidental damages the above limitation 
relating to liability for consequential damages may not apply to You. 

NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THIS LICENCE, THE 
MAXIMUM LIABILITY OF ARM TO YOU IN AGGREGATE FOR ALL CLAIMS MADE AGAINST 
ARM IN CONTRACT TORT OR OTHERWISE UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS LICENCE SHALL NOT EXCEED THE GREATER OF: (I) THE 
TOTAL OF SUMS PAID BY YOU TO ARM (IF ANY) FOR THIS LICENCE; OR (II) 
$10.00 USD. THE EXISTENCE OF MORE THAN ONE CLAIM WILL NOT ENLARGE OR 
EXTEND THE LIMIT. 


7. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS. 

US Government Restrictions: Use, duplication, reproduction, release, 
modification, disclosure or transfer of the Software is restricted in 
accordance with the terms of this Licence. 


8. TERM AND TERMINATION. 

This Licence shall remain in force until terminated by You, or by ARM. 
Without prejudice to any of its other rights if You are in breach of any 
of the terms and conditions of this Licence then ARM may terminate this 
Licence immediately upon giving written notice to You. You may terminate 
this Licence at any time. Upon termination of this Licence by You or by 
ARM, You shall stop using the Software and confidential information and 
destroy all copies of the Software and confidential information in Your 
possession. The provisions of clauses 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 shall survive 
termination of this Licence. 


9. GENERAL. 

This Licence is governed by English Law. Except where ARM agrees 
otherwise in: (i) a written contract signed by You and ARM; or (ii) a 
written contract provided by ARM and accepted by You, this is the only 
agreement between You and ARM relating to the Software and it may only 
be modified by written agreement between You and ARM. Except as 
expressly agreed in writing, this Licence may not be modified by 
purchase orders, advertising or other representation by any person. If 
any clause or sentence in this Licence is held by a court of law to be 
illegal or unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Licence shall 
not be affected thereby. The failure by ARM to enforce any of the 
provisions of this Licence, unless waived in writing, shall not 
constitute a waiver of ARM's rights to enforce such provision or any 
other provision of this Licence in the future. 

The Software provided under this Licence is subject to U.S. export 
control laws, including the U.S. Export Administration Act and its 
associated regulations, and may be subject to export or import 
regulations in other countries. You agree to comply fully with all laws 
and regulations of the United States and other countries ("Export 
Laws") to assure that the Software, is not: (1) exported, directly or 
indirectly, in violation of Export Laws, either to any countries that 
are subject to U.S.A. export restrictions or to any end user who has 
been prohibited from participating in the U.S.A. export transactions by 
any federal agency of the U.S.A. government; or (2) intended to be used 
for any purpose prohibited by Export Laws, including, without 
limitation, nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons proliferation. 


ARM contract references: LES-PRE-20262 for Secure Monitor Example Code 
ARMv8A/end 
